{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Leelawadee;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Segoe Print;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22000}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont3\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\f0\fs28\lang9\par
\par
\f1\fs36 UNIVERSITY OF BENIN\par
\par
\f0 Department of Industrial Technical Education (DITE)\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\f1 TOPIC: CRITICAL THINKING\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc BY\par
\b NOSAKHARE DIVINE\f2\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\b0\f0\fs28\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
CRITICAL THINKING\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\ul Introduction\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\ulnone Critical thinking refers to the ability to think clearly, carefully, and reasonably about information, ideas, and situations before making judgments or decisions. It involves the use of logic, reasoning, and reflection in order to understand issues deeply rather than accepting them at surface level. Critical thinking encourages individuals to question assumptions, analyze arguments, evaluate evidence, and reach well-informed conclusions.\par
\par
In modern society, people are constantly exposed to information from different sources such as the media, the internet, social networks, schools, religious institutions, and political organizations. Not all information received from these sources is accurate or reliable. As a result, critical thinking has become a very important skill for students and members of society. It helps individuals to distinguish between facts and opinions, truth and falsehood, and strong and weak arguments.\par
\par
Critical thinking is not only useful in academics but also in everyday life. It influences how people solve problems, make decisions, relate with others, and respond to challenges. This work discusses argument analysis, evaluating evidence, types of critical thinking, bias and types of bias, influence of authority, objectives of critical thinking, evolution of critical thinking, and the benefits of critical thinking.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 1 )\i0\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
ARGUMENT ANALYSIS\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Argument analysis is the careful examination of an argument in order to understand its meaning, structure, and strength. An argument is a group of statements where one statement (the conclusion) is supported by other statements (the premises or reasons). The main aim of an argument is to persuade or convince someone to accept a particular point of view.\par
\par
In critical thinking, argument analysis helps individuals identify the main claim being made and the reasons given to support it. It also helps determine whether the reasons are relevant, sufficient, and logically connected to the conclusion. Some arguments may appear convincing at first, but when analyzed carefully, they may be based on weak evidence or faulty reasoning.\par
\par
For example, an argument may claim that a particular action is good simply because many people support it. A critical thinker understands that popularity does not automatically mean correctness. Argument analysis helps in identifying such errors in reasoning, commonly known as logical fallacies.\par
\par
Through argument analysis, individuals learn to question claims, identify assumptions, and assess whether conclusions are reasonable. This skill is essential in academic writing, debates, discussions, and decision-making processes.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 2 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
\par
EVALUATING EVIDENCE\par
\par
Evaluating evidence involves carefully examining information used to support a claim or argument in order to determine its reliability and credibility. Evidence can take many forms, such as facts, statistics, examples, expert opinions, and research findings. However, not all evidence is trustworthy or relevant.\par
\par
A critical thinker does not accept evidence blindly. Instead, questions are asked about the source of the information, how it was obtained, and whether it is accurate and up to date. Evidence from credible and authoritative sources is generally more reliable than information from unknown or biased sources.\par
\par
For instance, information obtained from rumors or unverified online posts should be treated with caution. Evaluating evidence helps individuals avoid misinformation and make decisions based on accurate and reliable facts.\par
\par
In academic work, evaluating evidence is especially important because conclusions and arguments must be supported by sound information. Without proper evaluation of evidence, arguments become weak and unreliable.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 3 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
\par
\par
TYPES OF CRITICAL THINKING\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Critical thinking can be divided into several types, each contributing to effective reasoning and understanding.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 a. \ul Analytical Thinking\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\ulnone\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Analytical thinking involves breaking down complex information into smaller parts in order to understand it better. It allows individuals to examine relationships, patterns, and details within information. This type of thinking is useful when dealing with complicated issues or topics that require careful examination.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 b. \ul Logical Thinking\ulnone\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Logical thinking focuses on reasoning correctly and drawing conclusions that follow from available facts. It involves organizing thoughts in a clear and orderly manner. Logical thinking helps individuals avoid contradictions and inconsistencies in their reasoning.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 c. \ul Reflective Thinking\ulnone\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Reflective thinking involves thinking deeply about experiences, actions, and decisions in order to learn from them. It encourages self-examination and improvement. Reflective thinkers consider past mistakes and successes when making future decisions.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 d. \ul Creative Thinking\ulnone\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Creative thinking involves generating new ideas and exploring different possibilities. It helps individuals approach problems from different angles and find innovative solutions. Creative thinking works alongside logical thinking in problem-solving.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 e. \ul Problem-Solving Thinking\ulnone\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Problem-solving thinking involves identifying problems, analyzing possible solutions, and selecting the most effective option. It requires patience, careful reasoning, and evaluation of outcomes.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 4 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
\par
BIAS AND TYPES OF BIAS\par
\par
Bias refers to a tendency to think or judge in a way that is unfair, one-sided, or influenced by personal feelings and beliefs. Bias often prevents individuals from thinking objectively and reaching fair conclusions.\par
\par
There are several types of bias, including personal bias, cultural bias, confirmation bias, and media bias. Personal bias arises from individual experiences and beliefs. Cultural bias occurs when people judge others based on their cultural background. Confirmation bias involves accepting only information that supports existing beliefs while ignoring opposing views. Media bias occurs when information is presented in a way that favors a particular perspective.\par
\par
Bias can negatively affect decision-making and judgment. Critical thinking helps individuals recognize bias in themselves and others, thereby promoting fairness and objectivity.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 5 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
INFLUENCE OF AUTHORITY AND INFLUENTIAL FIGURES\par
\par
Authority refers to individuals or institutions that are regarded as knowledgeable or powerful, such as leaders, teachers, experts, religious figures, and public figures. Many people tend to accept information from authority figures without questioning it.\par
\par
While authority can be a valuable source of knowledge, blind acceptance of authority can lead to errors and manipulation. Critical thinking teaches individuals to respect authority while also evaluating claims based on evidence and logic.\par
\par
By questioning authority responsibly, individuals become independent thinkers who can make informed decisions rather than simply following opinions without understanding them.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 6 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
OBJECTIVES OF CRITICAL THINKING\par
\par
The objectives of critical thinking are aimed at developing sound reasoning and informed judgment. These objectives include improving the ability to analyze information, evaluate evidence, and make rational decisions.\par
\par
Critical thinking also aims to promote independent thinking, encourage curiosity, and enhance problem-solving skills. It helps individuals become more aware of their assumptions and biases and develop a habit of reflective thinking.\par
\par
Overall, the objectives of critical thinking are to improve understanding, clarity, and fairness in thought and action.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 7 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
EVOLUTION OF CRITICAL THINKING\par
\par
The concept of critical thinking has existed for many centuries. Ancient philosophers such as Socrates emphasized questioning and dialogue as a means of discovering truth. His method encouraged people to examine their beliefs and assumptions.\par
\par
Over time, critical thinking became an important part of philosophy, science, and education. During the scientific revolution, critical thinking played a key role in observation, experimentation, and logical reasoning.\par
\par
In modern times, critical thinking is regarded as a fundamental skill in education and professional life. It is seen as essential for adapting to change, solving complex problems, and participating effectively in society.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 8 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
BENEFITS OF CRITICAL THINKING\par
\par
Critical thinking offers numerous benefits to individuals and society. It improves academic performance by enhancing understanding and analytical skills. It also improves communication by enabling individuals to express ideas clearly and logically.\par
\par
Other benefits include better decision-making, improved problem-solving ability, increased self-confidence, and resistance to manipulation and misinformation. Critical thinking also promotes responsible citizenship by encouraging informed opinions and constructive dialogue.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (` 9 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
CONCLUSION\par
\par
In conclusion, critical thinking is an essential intellectual skill that enables individuals to think clearly, analyze arguments, evaluate evidence, and make informed decisions. It helps reduce bias, promotes independent thinking, and improves problem-solving abilities. In a world filled with complex issues and vast amounts of information, critical thinking remains a vital tool for personal development and societal progress. Therefore, the practice and development of critical thinking should be encouraged in all areas of learning and life.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc\i (`10 )\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\par
\par
REFERENCES\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1 Facione, P. A. (2011). Critical thinking: What it is and why it counts. Insight Assessment.\par
\f3\u8594?\f0  \i This is one of the most widely cited works on critical thinking and clearly explains skills such as analysis, evaluation, and reasoning.\par
\i0\par
Ennis, R. H. (2015). Critical thinking: A streamlined conception. In Davies, M., & Barnett, R. (Eds.), The Palgrave handbook of critical thinking in higher education. Palgrave Macmillan.\par
\i\f3\u8594?\f0  Very useful for academic definitions, objectives, and types of critical thinking.\par
\i0\par
Fisher, A., & Scriven, M. (1997). Critical thinking: Its definition and assessment. Centre for Research in Critical Thinking.\par
\f3\u8594?\f0  \i Excellent for argument analysis, evaluating evidence, and logical reasoning.\i0\par
\par
Paul, R., & Elder, L. (2014). Critical thinking: Tools for taking charge of your learning and your life. Pearson Education.\par
\f3\u8594?\f0  \i Covers bias, authority, objectives, and benefits of critical thinking in clear language.\par
\i0\par
Moon, J. (2008). Critical thinking: An exploration of theory and practice. Routledge.\par
\f3\u8594?\f0  \i Helpful for reflective thinking and the development of critical thinking over time.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl360\slmult1\qc (`11 )\lang9\par
}
 